Hi everyone, and welcome to today's
webinar. My name is Pamela. I'm one of
the founders and CEO here at Finch.
I'm here together with Jesper Wallgren,
also a founder and CPO, and Amelia
Henry, who is a senior partnership lead.
We are all have a background as
architects and are working today at
Finch.
So, today's session is about
how the shift the shift that is
happening in our industry, how workflows
are changing, and how the role of the
architect is evolving from producing
solutions to to directing them.
And as more of you adopt these tools,
the bottlenecks and competitive edge
would no longer be around production. It
will be around decision-making, and we
will explore this through a workshop
that we recently hosted together with
KPF for the ATM Summit build-up.
But first, let me take you back to why
we started Finch. So, Jesper and I were
in this call are both architects. We
used to run our own architecture
company.
We felt the frustration with the current
CAD and BIM solutions that perhaps you
were feeling as well. We were wanting to
spend to spend more time designing
architecture,
but we found ourselves with a lot of
manual repetitive work and less time in
designing. So, we developed a lot of our
own in-house tools
to make to become more competitive
essentially.
And some of these tools were posted
online, and it turned out that there
were many many more out there who shared
this frustration.
So, we understood
with this adaptive plan that we could
make a bigger impact on the world of
architecture by providing our industry
peers with better software.
So, we folded architecture firm and
stayed started Finch with one clear
mission.
To build the tool that we had needed
ourselves as architects.
We want to move from manually producing
drawings to directing design outcomes.
And we wanted to
make sure
that
Oh, sorry. [clears throat]
And this is why we built Finch around
these three principles. So,
interoperability, automation, and
customization. Not as features, but as
enablers of this shift.
So, if we start with interoperability,
for us this meant staying within our
familiar environment, working seamlessly
with the tools that we were already
using, making it easy to adopt and
integrate.
When we think about automation, we saw
that our client briefs were getting
longer and longer, and the expected
turnaround time was getting shorter. We
want to build a solution that allowed us
to explore more options deeper and
faster, but without sacrificing
precision or design quality.
And the final one, when it comes to
customization, we understand that every
project is unique. And all of you here
today have a unique approach of how to
solve a certain specific site.
So, we want to make sure that you could
learn from past projects and embed
knowledge knowledge and design systems
to steer the generated results.
And we still live by these principles
that allows you to define intent,
explore at scale, and stay in control,
making the shift from craftsman to
curator.
And Finch is already being used by
leading architecture firms from all
around the world. We have a waiting list
of more than 100,000 people, but we are
partnering with architecture firms
approximately six per month to make sure
that we
can support them in their projects.
We're very hands-on with our partners.
So, if you're interested in becoming one
of our partners, reach out to us after
the webinar.
But we will have a look at what the
workflow that I just described looks
like in practice. We'll show a demo from
our workshop that we did with KPF, where
we demonstrated a connected
computational workflow from urban master
planning to BIM-ready floor plans.
In just 2 hours, we developed an
optimized unit mix for eight more than
800 units. We generated floor plans and
brought everything into Revit as fully
structured BIM geometry.
This was work that would have normally
taken weeks. Well, this was done in only
2 hours.
So, with that, I will hand it over to
Jesper, who will walk you through this
workflow and what it looks like.
Thank you. So, let me share my screen to
start with.
There we go.
Yes, so this was a workshop at the ATM
Summit in London we did together with
KPF, and I'm going to go through the
work flow we created here together with
KPF and how we went from a site into a
fully BIM model. And while doing so,
we're going to have a look at how the
role of the architect is changing from
craftsman to more of a curating role.
After we go through this
webinar or the workshop we did with KPF,
I'm also going to do a live demo of
roughly the same same flow just to give
you a
sneak peek more in-depth of how how
software works.
Okay.
But let's
start here. So, the
the workshop we did with KPF was divided
into two parts. In the first part,
Michael from KPF started with setting up
a Grasshopper script for a massive site.
It was a really big one. He subdivided
into 17 plots, and then
we detailed one of these plots further
in Finch. And it is the second part of
the workflow we're going to
zoom into here.
And just as Pamela mentioned,
interoperability is a big part of Finch,
and we need to be where the user are.
So, Michael was working in Grasshopper
in this particular workshop. So, of
course, we have a native Grasshopper
component that he used to send his
geometry into Finch. And this also
highlights the
collaboration possibilities cuz cuz
Michael was sitting in London,
and I was sitting in Sweden Sweden
receiving his geometry live. So, a
single source of truth in the cloud.
And
when I get the geometry into Finch, I
started to subdividing the building
further. And we've all done it with
traditional methods. We draw up a
handful of suggestions,
but instead here with new generative
tools like Finch, the computer generates
thousands for you, and you go from
drawing three options manually to
evaluating 30. And you change from
adjusting geometry to adjusting input
parameters and intent. So, the role is
shifting from executing to deciding. So,
from craftsman to curator.
And when we had this unit mix in place,
we also had a look at the floor plan
library in Finch. And we will go through
this one more time in the live demo
later.
The floor plan library is what we call
the intent layer in Finch. And this is
where you describe for the system how
you would like your design to behave.
And this becomes the foundation where
you
generate from later on. And this is a
great way of sharing knowledge, sharing
designs within your firm. And this is
also what makes the results you get
different from from the next architect's
results.
Then we went back to our project and
generated floor plans. And here the the
shift of the role becomes very clear.
You tell Finch you want to generate
floor plans, and then you get results
presented in three categories from your
own library, from your organization
library, and Finch generated.
And and here it's not about drawing
floor plans from scratch anymore, but
deciding what
which one of these floor plans that fits
your project the best. And your main
value here as an architect is not about
drawing floor plans faster anymore, but
choosing better for your project.
And um
of course, Finch helps you to evaluate
these results. But I think one one
important thing to highlight here is
also since you once were or maybe still
are a craftsman, you are also equipped
with
with the tools to choose which one of
these plans is better for your project.
The last thing we presented in Finch is
our AI assistant called Archie.
The tools I've shown here
up until now has been about creating
geometry from zero to to one, creating
new geometry. This is not what Archie
is doing. Archie is more about getting
things done. And the kind of tasks you
can assign to Archie is to tell him to
to make sure that all of your doors are
placed 3 in from the wall, not 2 and
1/2, not 4. And then Archie gets to work
and goes through hundreds of designs in
your project here, make sure everything
follow whatever you have asked for
him him to to check, and you can move on
to to other
bigger design challenges in your
project. So, this is
great way of just, you know, get some
assistance within within your design
flow.
And when you have created all of this
data in Finch, how do you get it out?
This is something that we thought about
long and hard when designing our Revit
extension. And Amelia will go through
the Revit extension more in-depth later
on.
But,
we we we thought about it. We talked to
a lot of customers and one very common
workflow when designing a project is
that you start in a design software such
as
Rhino SketchUp, and then you simply
remodel your whole project in Archicad
or Revit. And this kind of workflow has
two consequences two main consequences,
I would say. One one bad and one
positive. Let's start with the
with the positive one, and
that is that when you remodel your
project in your BIM solution,
you get a clean slate, you know, start
from scratch, but you also model it with
the native tools in Revit, which makes
Revit works better, of course, than
compared to if you import a lot of
geometry. The the not so good thing
about this flow is, of course, that it
can be very frustrating to model your
project all over again when you already
have done it once. So, this was
something that we considered, can we
just take the good part when we're
building our
extension? It turns out that we can. So,
when you use the Revit extension or
Archicad extension in Finch,
the extension looks at the Finch model,
and then it actually rebuilds your whole
project with the native tools in Revit
and Archicad. So, and you can map your
own families. So, the the the the model
that's being built follows your design
principle that you've set up in your
practice. And and seeing this kind of
big project being built automatically in
Revit is is
is very inspiring for everyone who has
spent weeks setting up these models.
So, that was the workshop with
KPF.
We will go through it in a live demo
here soon.
If you want to see the full workshop, it
was a 4-hour-long workshop, you can
simply head into YouTube and search for
ATN Finch KPF, and
you will see it among top result there.
Before we head into the live demo, let's
wrap up the slides.
So, a couple of words about 2026 and our
road map.
We have been very residential heavy up
until now. We're introducing more
typologies in Finch.
We already started to launch a lot of
office features, and in the pipeline
later on is health care and educational
buildings as well.
We're also launching our own 3D editor.
As I
showed here in the workflow, as
we started in Grasshopper Rhino, and
then we went into Finch and worked with
the mass.
When we're launching the 3D editor, you
will be able to start immediately or
directly in in Finch.
And last thing is the documentation
part. We're developing document
documentation capabilities for schematic
design, so you will be able to stay
longer in Finch before you head into
Revit and Archicad.
And maybe you would like to say a couple
of words. I'm [snorts] allowed to wrap
the presentation up here before we head
into the live demo.
Nope.
You got
Sure.
I mean, this is a presentation that we
presented at the the ATN Summit. We're
really excited about this shift that is
happening, and we, of course, want to
support as many of our industry peer
adapting to this new era of AI.
So, if you are interested in this type
of workflow, if you see Finch as a
potential fit for the type of project
you work with, just reach out to you to
us. We will send out the an email
tomorrow with the with the link to the
recording of the full webinar, and there
you have our contact information if you
want to
get in touch with us to learn more about
what that type of partnerships look
like.
Okay, super.
So, let's head into the live demo here.
So,
this is Finch. It runs in the browser.
This is how it looks.
We're going to take this mass and
generate circulation, unit mix, and and
floor plans in it. And when I'm done
with it, Amelia will demonstrate the
Revit plugin.
A couple of words about how I got this
geometry into the browser. We connect to
existing software.
Just give me a second here. I'm going to
change my camera.
There we go. So, we connect to existing
so
software. We connect to Rhino,
Grasshopper, Revit, Archicad, and
Formit. So, this is where you start your
design process.
In this example, I'm going to show you
our Rhino extension. So, this is where
the
the geometry come. We have a Finch
extension down here, and I've simply,
let's hide the context, uploaded my mass
into Finch. And this is then where I'm
going to start detailing it further.
There we go. And this is how it looks
when you get into Finch. The first thing
I'm going to start with is just
assigning some programs here. I simply
select the different stories. I say I
want residential. Let's put retail here
in the bottom,
and maybe some technical things at the
top.
And immediately, I get some information
of how many square feet I have for the
different programs.
And this is just a great way of making
sure that you have your key figures in
place all the time here for the project.
So, let's head into the top story and
start generating things.
I simply select the whole story, click
generate. I'm going to generate unit mix
and corridors for this building.
And straight away, here I launch it, I
get some suggestions of core placement.
I've inputted some parameters here,
maximum egress distance, and so on. So,
if I were to force my algorithm to
instead of adding these three
stairwells, just put one stairwell,
you will also see that I get some
instant
feedback that this is just simply too
far away from the circulation. The the
units we will generate over here will
not be compliant according to the input
I've given it. So, let's jump back to
three.
There we go.
I'm happy with this one, and before I go
ahead and generate the unit mix, I'm
just going to apply it here to my story.
There we go.
And uh
everything you generate in Finch is also
editable. So, if I zoom in here, I can
simply say, "Okay, I would like my
circulation to be 24
feet instead. I would like to align this
wall with this wall." Something like
that.
So, you can edit it to get it exactly
how you want.
Then I simply select the areas where I
would like to generate my new units, and
I go and click generate unit mix around
existing corridor. Could be used in an
existing project as well, turning an
office building into residential, and so
on.
Let's fire it up.
Once again, it asks for some input. I
just specify a unit mix, the input, and
so on. And you can see that the
algorithm start to work. And even if you
have a complex shape like this, you can
see that the precision is actually very
high. I asked for
1250, I have 1250, I have 750, and so
on.
And of course, there's always one or two
apartments that take up the discrepancy
here.
But, for this particular design, I would
like to have a little bit more control,
and then I can add
I'm actually going to add some grid
lines here. There we go. And tell the
algorithm to follow the grid lines. And
what happens now is that the algorithm
try to find the optimal blend of
snapping to the grid lines and still
maintaining the input that I've given
it. Of course, this is a trade-off that
you as an architect has to to
decide where to go. Do you want exact
sizes, or do you want it to to follow
the grid lines?
But, I think I'm fairly happy with these
results. Good enough. Let's
put it in here.
And once again, if you have these kind
of situations, where I asked for 1,000
square feet, I got 1,000 square feet,
but me as an architect think it would be
nice if this one aligns, then I can
simply
pull it hold down shift to lock it, and
there you go.
So,
with the unit mix in place,
I'm very happy with this one. Uh before
we go deeper and start generating floor
plans, I would like to show you my my
floor plan library. So, I simply head up
to the menu, I'm going to click on
uh
plans, I'm actually going to use another
tab here.
There you go.
This is my floor plan library. I also
have access to my demo organization's
floor plans, and as I mentioned, this is
a great way of sharing design design uh
uh designs from previous projects, see
what your colleagues have been up to,
and so on. But I'm going to head into my
library, and I'm going to open one of my
plans. Uh
let's use this one.
So, this is how a plan look.
And what's special about the plans here
in Finch is that they are adaptive. So,
if I pull
a wall, you can see that it stretches a
little bit.
And that might not be how you would like
your architecture to behave, so then you
can also go in and set constraints. For
example, this is a bathroom module, or
could be. Uh I simply lock the walls
here, and then I have my uh corridors. I
would like to say that they are allowed
to be wider,
but not more narrow. And the next time I
stretch my plan here, you can see that
my bathroom stays the same, and the
corridors becomes wider, and if I pull
it together here, you can see that the
the small bathroom is getting squeezed,
and not the corridors. So, this is just
a great way of communicating with the
system how you would like your design to
uh behave.
But uh let's jump back into the project.
There you go.
And let's start generating some floor
plans here. I'm going to select this
one, going to click generate floor plan,
and then we give Finch a couple of
seconds to analyze where do we have the
outside, where is the corridor, where's
the neighboring apartment, and so on, to
make sure we have a plan that is entered
from the corridor and into the and have
a bedrooms to to the facade and these
kind of things.
And as we see results popping in here,
they are being presented in three
categories. I have my own plans, they
come from my plan library.
Let's click one here.
I have
plans from my colleagues that they have
designed that I can
browse around and see what they have
been up to, and I have Finch generated
results down here that I also can use as
inspiration and uh
apply here and then make it my own. But
uh since since uh my own plans fitted
very well here, I'm going to use one of
them.
And as you saw now, the colors changed
when I baked it. Uh that is because I've
changed the colors in this project. So,
because everything in Finch, both the
design and and the look of things can be
customized to make it look exactly how
you would like it in your practice.
And
when I have a plan in place, I'm just
going to go in here and click control C
to copy.
I'm going to select some similar plans.
Let's do it like this.
And I'm going to click control V,
and then the system uh
rotates it as it understand, "No, you
need to enter from the corridor." And
you can see that it's uh copied out to
these different units.
As you see, I copied it also into a unit
that doesn't look exactly the same. I
have this undulating facade here. And
then me as an architect can go in and
say, "But I would like to use this plan
anyhow. So, I would like to take stretch
these walls a little bit and say union."
And now
the plan adapts to all of the different
units, and you can see the outline here
of the different units where I used the
plan. And they are still linked, even if
they are a little bit different. So, if
I were to move my little Eames chair
here, of course, it updates in all of
the units. And this is a this is a great
way of of working with repetition in
your design, even if it's not exactly
the same uh apartments.
And uh then I work my way through the
project, and I can show you how it looks
when we have a lot of plans. This is a
full project. Uh
and the last thing I would like to show
you before we heading in to uh Revit the
Revit demo is, of course, Archie, our
design assistant I mentioned earlier on
here.
I'm going to open him him here, and then
I can
do things like let's do the same uh
similar example.
Uh
Make sure all my pocket doors are
2 inches from the wall.
Let's see what happens.
And then we give Archie a couple of
seconds to think about it. Uh let's see.
From nearest wall, that
sounds about right.
So, now it goes into the different plans
here, and this is the pocket doors, of
course. And yeah, you can see he moved
that one, and then he's just working his
way through all of my units here in the
project. And this is a great way of
making sure everything is ready for
going out to uh full BIM model in Revit
later. And there is just something
pleasing about, you know, starting
Archie and see how he navigates around
in the project while I'll have a coffee
or think about the bigger questions here
in the project.
Okay. Uh while he's doing that, I'm just
going to show you super quickly how this
project would look in Revit later. So,
just to
not
let you wait while Revit build the
models, it takes it takes a couple of
minutes for Revit to build a model. So,
I did it before this demo. This is how
it looks in Revit when it comes in. It
is native Revit geometry, as mentioned,
Revit walls, Revit doors, Revit
families.
And
uh
yeah, this is it for the demo part.
Now, Amelia will show you how it works
when you import a project to Revit, and
I think she also will uh mention that we
also support the same kind of uh things
in Archicad.
I think that's it. Did I forget about
anything, Amelia or Pamela?
I think that was great. Thanks, Jesper.
Uh I'll go ahead and share my screen
here, and uh yeah, as Jesper mentioned,
we'll go through the
uh
Just going to move here.
Uh
we will be going through the uh workflow
for both Revit as well as Archicad. Uh
so, here we are inside of Finch. Uh this
is a high-rise tower located in New
York, and just to give a quick idea of
kind of how Finch can be used as a
presentation tool as well. When we're at
the stage of where we're ready to bring
this down into Revit, uh we of course
always have our programs on the left
side or on the right side here. So, we
have, you know, residential GFA, GIA,
etc. Uh we can even set up, you know,
custom calculations for carbon revenue,
these sort of things. So, a lot of the
stuff that you also will do when you go
down into Revit, you can actually have
up here in Finch as well. Looking at
space types, vertical stacking, unit
mix, as well as some schedules of
objects, doors, walls, these sort of
things.
But uh once we're ready to go down into
Revit, we'll just go ahead and open that
up. Here we can see this uh full
building modeled in 3D. Uh and as you
saw in the the KPF video, we can have
both 2D and 3D furniture. In this
particular model, we're working
primarily with 2D furniture. Uh and you
can also, of course, map whatever you're
bringing in here. Uh if we just go ahead
and take a look in 2D, we can see that
we have, you know, those area plans for
GFA, NIA, these sort of things. And we
of course also are working with those
model groups. So, the model groups we
have up in Finch with our plans, all of
these type A, type B, studio, this is
brought all the way down into Revit, and
these names, of course, are retained. Uh
and as Jesper mentioned, we had to have
the custom mapping. So, in this
particular file, everything is getting
mapped as Finch basic walls. Uh but when
you are importing things, you can switch
them to your own templates um as as
default.
If we want to go ahead and generate
inside of Revit, we can also do that.
So, we often say that you know, if
you're kind of later stage in the
project, or maybe you're just using
Finch for the very first time, this can
be a really nice way to uh get up and
running with Finch. Essentially, we just
want to click inside of the unit we want
to generate in, click on the entrance
door wall, and then hit finish, and then
instantly we're going to be leveraging
that data set that we have up in Finch
down here in the Revit environment that
we're very familiar with.
So we'll see these start to pop up. And
as always you have a few different
result sets. So my own plans, my firm's
plans, Finch plans, you have a lot to
choose from. And you can just click
those down to bring them into the Revit
environment.
If we jump over into Archicad, same
thing goes there.
Archicad up. So here a very similar
environment. We of course have that 3D
model brought down here. Take a look
there.
And everything's coming in as expected.
You can custom map this here as well.
And same goes if we want to go ahead and
generate a plan. We can go ahead and
click generate in this zone.
And then the interface you'll notice is
actually a little bit different here. So
we are going to kind of work in more of
that Finch environment that you're
familiar with. So we can go ahead and
say that we want to know the entrance
here.
Go ahead and generate. And then I'm just
going to drag this over so you can see
the whole window here.
Like so.
And then we have all of our filters. We
can check for compliant plans, search by
region tags, all of that here. You know,
preview the plans as we are used to. And
if I want to actually work with this
plan, I can just assign it out. And we
are working with hot links as well. So
same as those model groups will pop down
here into Archicad.
All right. And then we have that there.
So I'll just move this back over. We can
take a look at what we received. So
looks pretty similar to what we've
already downloaded. Everything's coming
down in our our own templates there.
All right. That's what I have for for
Archicad and Revit. So I'll hand it back
over to to Jesper and Pamela.
Thank you, Amelia. Shall we jump into
Q&A?
Let's see.
The first question is around when the
education solutions will be available.
We have started to do a couple of
collaborations with a few universities.
This is a resource question. But
hopefully we can launch more broadly to
students over here later this year or
the next year.
Unfortunately not ETA on that yet
though.
The second question is what are the
links between Archicad and Finch? And
this is what Amelia just showed. Feel
free to ask uh
uh
more detailed question if you if you
have
more specific question around Archicad.
And the next question is if Finch
automatically split the building into
stories or was the facade built split
already? Do you Would you like to take
this one, Jesper?
Yes. So uh
we automatically split the mesh into
stories. But of course you can set your
own story height. And you also can
upload your storage if you are an
advanced Grasshopper user and so on. So
you have total freedom over your
stories.
Uh next person here sounds like you have
a bug with the Archicad integration.
Feel free to send this into our chat. If
you are Mac user, want to let you know
that
we currently do not support that yet.
We're waiting for approval from from
Apple. But if you're facing any any
issues, just write to us in the chat and
we will forward this to our development
team.
Uh the next question is if it's possible
to add back of house program within
residential floor plans. I'm not
familiar with back of house programs.
Anyone else here? Amelia, Jesper?
Uh if I understand if it's just about
the types of um
rooms that you can have inside of your
your plan. I mean this is completely
custom. So anything that goes into the
data set, um room typologies, spatial
layouts, hierarchies, this is all
reflected in the results that that you
get.
Yeah.
Good.
Uh the next question if it if it's
possible to add bedroom closets
automatically in each bedroom. This is a
type of data that we can embed to the
pro plan library that Jesper just
showed. Uh here we can add closets and
so on. And that will
be included when you generate from your
own library.
The next one is about uh
construction for construction purposes.
How can you construct the amount of unit
types? In my practice unit types aren't
just same area but the same footprint as
well.
Jesper, would you like to take this one?
I didn't hear the the whole question.
Sorry.
Sorry. Let's see. So how can you
construct the amount of unit types?
For repetition.
Yes, so that happens when when you
generate the unit mix. Of course, in my
case I had an undulating facade.
Everyone will become unique. But in the
KPF workshop where we had a straight
building, I mean
since the the program tries to find
exact area, they will end up the
same shape and and the size. So that
happens by by default. Of course you
will always get some unique ones in
corners and and this kind of things just
as you would when you design it
yourself.
Yes.
Um Sandra is writing, this is really
exciting, guys. Well done. Thank you. Is
it possible to set up criteria for how
GLA, GFA, etc. is measured?
Uh at the moment we support the standard
ones, gross floor area, net internal
area, gross internal area. We will
here later this year uh launch custom
ways to calculate these kind of
different things where you as a user
will be able to set should we measure
from the center of the wall or from the
inside or outside and this kind of
things. Right now we support the the
most common ones. But more custom is is
coming here during the year.
Yep.
Next one is for Amelia. Uh when
exporting to Revit, where do do the
family come from? I doors, windows, etc.
Are these standard Autodesk families or
can you use practice specific ones?
Yes, so when you export you have a a
dialogue box. And then you can actually
auto map them. So you can select all of
the the walls that are in your Finch
project and auto map them. And then you
can actually save these settings as
well. So you only need to set this up
once. But if you don't do this, they
just come in as those Finch generic
ones. But yeah, you can have them custom
mapped to anything whether it's doors,
slabs, furniture, walls, all of that.
And actually if you do upload your
furniture from Revit to begin with, then
it will automatically do that as well.
Yes.
The next question is if this works with
UK standards as well.
Yes. We have many UK firms using Finch.
Few of them you might see here behind
me.
>> [clears throat]
>> Uh and we can embed
uh a lot of different type of
regulations both into the plan library
but also the input that you can give the
the optimized unit mix algorithm and so
on. Feel free to reach out to us
afterwards if you have a specific
project that you're considering using
Finch. Happy to help you out.
The next one is
also about regulations,
building and technical in various
countries.
Uh for that I want to say that we have
customers in more than 20 countries. We
have customers in US, in Europe, in the
Middle East, Asia, and Australia.
Um so we are quite familiar to working
with very different type of regulations.
And with this is why we help all of our
customers to build up this plan library
to make sure that this is where you can
embed the type of regulations that you
need to adhere to in that level of
detail. And then in the
order algorithms, this is where you can
again steer and interact with everything
that is being generated.
And I usually say that Finch can
probably adhere to depending on where
you are, what part of the world you are,
to 50 to 70% of the rules.
But you are as an architect are always
in charge. You need to evaluate the
result and make sure it is 100%
compliant and take it from those 50 to
100%.
The next question is if it
read
and convert any units.
Like millimeter, meters. I'm not sure I
understand the question. Anyone else?
Uh if I understand, you can upload
straight from Rhino Revit in any
units. And you can also switch between
imperial and metric inside of Finch.
Yep.
This one is also for you, Amelia.
Once you export to Revit, can you go
back to Finch for redesign?
Thank you. Great webinar. Thank you for
attending the aux.
Uh so once you export to Finch, you are
kind of doing this conversion to to BIM.
So it doesn't kind of flow both ways.
But if you have really big changes, we
advise you to kind of go back into
Finch, redesign, regenerate, work with
it there. If you do have minor changes,
you know, just a wall here and there,
then what I showed generating inside of
Revit can be a really good option. So I
would say it just depends on the the
scale of the changes. But we kind of
advise our customers to stay inside of
Finch for as long as possible, iterate
there. Because once you do go out to
Revit, you are kind of doing that export
that is a little bit, you know, harder
than staying in Finch where you can be
really flexible and iterate quickly.
Good.
Uh Anna here wrote a follow-up question.
I think I misunderstood the first one.
The question was about educational
solution. Uh it's about the educational
architecture as residential, commercial,
and so on. Will there be a solution for
those kind of buildings as well? And
when?
We are actually already supporting
educational projects through the Nano
Banana extension.
I don't know where Yesper do you have
something to demo? Maybe not educational
uh but we have offices as an example
just to show how the Nana Banana
uh interface works in Finch.
Yeah, yeah, sure.
Let's
So, this was the project we were
working in.
Uh let's just add a wall here and
generate an office instead. So,
I'm just going to delete this part of
the building.
Uh and then I'm going to say select it
and going to generate with Nana Banana
and I can just office for 40 people uh
and give it
and uh
of course, you can develop this prompts
a lot and be very intricate and complex.
Now, generate an office for the people.
We will see how the the results becomes
here.
Uh I would say the main benefit with
using Nana Banana in Finch compared to
just running it in in Google as as you
know, it's of course that we
curate the input and output. So, we send
the geometry, the the unit where you
want to generate into Nana Banana. Here
we're getting some results.
Uh here is an office
and we can see some different results
here.
And let's let's take one. I think I like
this one the best. Let's choose this
one.
So, of course, we provide that and then
we also if we click find walls here,
Finch also converts the yeah, already
now uh
the let's see turn on this one. Uh the
image into editable geometry. Right now,
it's walls like this and of course, you
can see that we can get in and edit
these kind of things manually. You can
take the doors and change them and work
with them. The next uh furnitures is
coming as well.
And uh of course, now I typed the office
you could
since it's Google anything that's on the
internet you can generate here if it's
educational or
mechanical space and so on.
Good. Thank you.
Uh the next question is from David. Uh a
link maintained between Finch and Revit
ArchiCAD for when individual rooms are
updated in Finch or is it one-way
traffic?
I think you already covered this,
Amelia.
Uh the next question is what about
various technical systems and their
integrations in the building, technical
shafts, spaces for the
tech and so on.
Uh maybe I can answer this one. Uh
it depends on the project. It depends on
how far you come with the project. We
can of course incorporate as an example
grid lines. For some customers we
include shafts already in their plans or
if they prefer to to add this later. Uh
it's very case by case.
See.
Uh the next question is issue of the
details. How is it solved as well as
thickness of elements?
So, thickness Yeah, thickness of
elements and walls and so on is embedded
in your floor plan library. So, if you
set that you want the
4 in or 120 mm in a wall, the result you
generate will also have these
dimension. And there was one more part
of the question, right, Pamela?
How is it solved as well as yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, I think I can kind of answered
that one a bit.
Good. Uh there's a follow-up regarding
ArchiCAD.
Uh if your unit type size in the same
in the same type IA, would this be
coming into ArchiCAD as a moody or
module type?
Uh when we're bringing in the the model
groups, they're coming in as hotlinks.
So, they're linked similar to how
they're coming in as model groups into
Revit. Uh
but all of you can actually test the
ArchiCAD plugin even on the the free
tier. So, if you guys want to go in and
kind of see the geometry that you get
out, you can download one of the sample
projects and have a look and kind of
inspect the geometry.
Yes.
Uh the next question is about roadmap.
What are your future plans for software
and what features do you hope to add in
the future?
Great seminar. Thanks. Thank you for
attending. Yesper, would you like to
answer this one?
Yeah, of course. So,
the main things as I showed in the
slides here of is of course more
typologies and the 3D editor and what
and and and right now we sits in between
if we say Rhino SketchUp these kind of
design software and then we have the BIM
software where we have ArchiCAD and
Revit and and we generate and work with
the inside of the building.
Uh we would like to go further into the
early stages as well so you can start
with the massing in Finch. That's why
we're building the 3D editor. And we're
also going in the other direction adding
uh
uh documentation capabilities within
Finch so we prolong the
the time spent in Finch before you
need to jump into your more rigid BIM
software that probably is very good at
documentation but maybe not as flexible
when it comes to the design phase.
Good. Thank you.
Uh this fits quite well into the next
question which is about how does Finch
understand the unit shape being
rectangular, square or with curves,
etc.? Do we need to model them in Revit
first and import it into Finch and then
import to Revit again or do we draw in
Finch directly first?
Uh so, right now you have to upload your
mass from Revit, Rhino, Grasshopper or
Autodesk Forma. You design inside in
Finch and then you can bring this back
to your preferred software as proper BIM
geometry. And just as Yesper mentioned,
we're building up our own 3D editor
which would allow you to start in Finch
quite soon.
Good.
The next question is after we modify the
project in ArchiCAD Revit, can we import
the modification back to Finch? Sort of
the inverse process. I think we already
covered it, right?
The next question is if we support the
direct integration with Autodesk Forma.
Yes, we do. We have a built-in extension
for Autodesk Forma so you can
fetch context,
surrounding buildings and so on, develop
your mass in Forma, bring this into
Finch and then uh export it to Revit.
That is a very popular workflow. We
presented this at Autodesk University
last year. Uh there's a YouTube clip
on exactly what this workflow looks
like. It's a very popular workflow
amongst our our customers, actually.
The next question is if there is an
option for creating renderings for the
spaces.
Uh is it something Archi does or is it
only in our development environment?
Uh well, you can't tell Archi to create
render and it you will get something out
but no, it's not something we do. We we
work with space planning and and and so
on and I think there's other tools that
built specifically for this out there
that you should uh
uh play around with.
Next question if it's possible to create
curtain walls,
modulations through the facade layout.
Uh not at the moment. We work at the
inside of the building. We have just
launched the ability to add
windows. Of course, you can add a lot of
windows turning it into a curtain uh
curtain wall but no, not at the moment.
We still focus very much on on the
inside.
We have a next question from Rodrigo. He
asked if it supports Chilean norms. As
mentioned before, we have customers from
all around the world. Uh we can usually
as mentioned adhere to about 50 to 70%
of them uh through
the constraints and the furnitures that
we embed into your plan library.
So, I think we'll be able to work with
the Chilean
norms as well.
Next question is if you can split the
screen in the Finch workflow to view
both the floor plan and the 3D view of
the rooms model simultaneously. I think
we've done this, right?
Yeah, we had it earlier on but we
removed it.
So, you cannot.
Okay, not anymore.
Uh next question is if you have already
designed a layout in Revit but want to
have more layout options, will you be
able to do that in Finch for the same
model?
I think if you want more layout options,
I would use the feature that Amelia
demoed here today. You can generate
floor plans directly into Revit.
And then the final one,
is it possible to work with prompts
offering flexibility in the projects
switching between different typologies
but keeping the structure stability of
the buildings in intelligent way? Also
in renovation projects, mix builds, etc.
Uh
regarding renovation projects, you can
upload
existing structure to Finch and Finch
can work around this.
Um
and yeah, I mean Jesper showed a very
simple prompt here just to generate an
office. Uh but usually for our
customers, those are much longer, much
more customized to to how they design.
So, yes.
And when it comes to structure, of
course, uh gridlines and so on.
Good. I think it was all of the
questions. Anything you'd like to add?
Jesper, maybe?
Maybe the last one. I mean, working with
Nana Banana, you can also feed existing
walls into the to to Nana Banana and
it's usually pretty good at working
around them.
No.
Nothing more from me.
So, thank you Thank you to everyone who
attended here today. We will send out
the recording tomorrow and feel free to
reach out to us if you have any
questions around the what type of
project we support, if you have an
upcoming project, or you think Finch
could be a good fit.
Uh happy to help you get started.
Thank you.
Bye-bye.